# Attestations

This section focuses on attestations for containers, which are increasingly popular. Do note that attestations can be created for any type of object.

Attestations describe how an object was built and what it contains. These are created at build-time for container images and attached to the final image as metadata. If you use services like GitHub Actions to build images, attestations are generated by default. For custom build processes, you need to add them manually.

The purpose of attestations is to:

- Inspect an image to determine its origin, creator, and contents.
- Make informed decisions about how an image impacts supply chain security.
- Enable the use of policy engines to validate images based on defined rules.

## Types of Build Attestations

1. **Software Bill of Materials (SBOM):** A list of software artifacts that an image contains or that were used to build the image.

2. **Provenance:** Information about how an image was built.

Several tools are available to manage attestations:

- [Sigstore](https://docs.sigstore.dev/)
- [in-toto](https://in-toto.io)
- [SLSA](https://slsa.dev/)

---

## Prerequisites

- A container engine like Docker or Podman.
- Python 3.

---

## Container Attestations

Navigate to the current directory and execute the following command:

```bash
docker buildx build --provenance=true --sbom=true --tag test:attestation --output type=local,dest=out .
```

This command uses BuildKit to produce attestations in the [in-toto](https://in-toto.io/) format, a standard supported by the Linux Foundation. Check the `out` folder for the following files:

- `provenance.json`
- `sbom.spdx.json`

Review these files to understand the information they provide.

### Limitations of Local Attestations

Local attestations are challenging because the Docker engine does not support storing this information. To overcome this, you need to build and push in a single command.

### Inspecting GitHub Action Images

You can inspect a GitHub Action-created image that includes attestation information:

```bash
docker buildx imagetools inspect ghcr.io/minbzk/bureaublad-api:pr-28
```

This container is a multi-platform container referencing two platforms: ARM and AMD. It also contains two unknown platforms, which are the attestations. To inspect them further, run:

```bash
docker buildx imagetools inspect ghcr.io/minbzk/bureaublad-api:pr-28@sha256:98ec787df3de3a02b9154c32147f8c917a7c2d0034e57de118ae0171f83c85bb --raw
docker buildx imagetools inspect ghcr.io/minbzk/bureaublad-api:pr-28@sha256:06651e443c194c5902ca7ff39ff68c7cd48cfe173f8a6357911892a701076897 --raw
```

Both attestations are in the in-toto format. However, these containers do not include an SBOM. To extract the content of these attestations, you need the [oras](https://oras.land/docs/installation) tool.

### Downloading a Manifest with ORAS

Install ORAS and use the following command to download a manifest:

```bash
oras copy ghcr.io/minbzk/bureaublad-api:pr-28@sha256:98ec787df3de3a02b9154c32147f8c917a7c2d0034e57de118ae0171f83c85bb --to-oci-layout output
```

Check the `output/blobs` folder for the attestation file.

---

## Security Considerations

The generated attestations are **not cryptographically signed**. This means anyone with access tokens to push images can create tampered attestations. To enhance security, you can sign the information with a key.

---

## Software Attestations

To sign software and create a supply chain of trust, [in-toto](https://in-toto.io) provides a demo. Try the official [in-toto demo](https://github.com/in-toto/demo) to create a cryptographically signed piece of software in a supply chain.
